Create targeted_methylation.md (#3176)
nf-core/website: sites/main-site/src/content/hackathon-projects/hackathon-march-2025/targeted_methylation.md

---
title: Adding targeted analysis to nf-core/methylseq pipeline
category: pipelines
slack: https://nfcore.slack.com/archives/CP3RJSMF0
intro_video: ""
image: ""
image_alt: ""
leaders:
  luigilamparelli:
    name: Luigi Lamparelli
    slack: https://nfcore.slack.com/team/U089MLSGA2Y
  dcarrillox:
    name: Daniel Carrillo Bautista
    slack: https://nfcore.slack.com/team/U08AYP59MD5
---

> This project focuses on developing a targeted analysis for methylseq data in the [methylseq](https://github.com/nf-core/methylseq) nf-core pipeline.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This project focuses on developing a targeted analysis for methylseq data in the [nf-ccore/methylseq](https://github.com/nf-core/methylseq) pipeline.
```

> We’re planning to contribute to the methylseq pipeline and have come up with the following feature ideas:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We’re planning to add the following features:
```

> - `--targeted` parameter: Currently, all detected methylation signals are included in the final results. However, some enrichment protocols target specific genomic regions. To address this, we propose adding a `--targeted` parameter that allows filtering results to retain only on-target methylation signals. The input would be a BED file specifying the target regions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `--targeted` parameter: Currently, all detected methylation signals are included in the final results. 
However, some enrichment protocols target specific genomic regions. 
To address this, we propose adding a `--targeted` parameter that allows filtering results to retain only on-target methylation signals. 
The input would be a BED file specifying the target regions.
```
makes markdown diffs easier to handle

> We’re planning to contribute to the methylseq pipeline and have come up with the following feature ideas:
> 
> - `--targeted` parameter: Currently, all detected methylation signals are included in the final results. However, some enrichment protocols target specific genomic regions. To address this, we propose adding a `--targeted` parameter that allows filtering results to retain only on-target methylation signals. The input would be a BED file specifying the target regions.
> - Enrichment metrics: Building on this idea, we propose adding a job to calculate on-target vs. off-target fractions of aligned reads, along with other enrichment metrics. A tool like `CollectHsMetrics` from Picard could be used for this purpose. There’s already an open PR related to this, which we’d be happy to contribute to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We’re planning to contribute to the methylseq pipeline and have come up with the following feature ideas:

- `--targeted` parameter: Currently, all detected methylation signals are included in the final results. However, some enrichment protocols target specific genomic regions. To address this, we propose adding a `--targeted` parameter that allows filtering results to retain only on-target methylation signals. The input would be a BED file specifying the target regions.
- Enrichment metrics: Building on this idea, we propose adding a job to calculate on-target vs. off-target fractions of aligned reads, along with other enrichment metrics. 
A tool like `CollectHsMetrics` from Picard could be used for this purpose. 
There’s already an open PR related to this, which we’d be happy to contribute to.
```
add a link to the PR
